- [Instructor] This course
is going to talk about JSON binding API.
But before that, let's understand what JSON is
and what is its significance.
JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
And what is it?
It is a simple structured text format for data interchange,
exchange of data between two different systems.
And it is programming language independent.
And you'll understand why that's required.
It's, of course, derived out of JavaScript,
it is a subset of JavaScript.
However, for this course,
we are going to talk about how do deal with JSON
with the Java platform using the JSON binding API.
So don't worry to much
if you do not have to sound a knowledge
of JavaScript right now, it's okay.
Douglas Crockford came up with the idea of JSON
and when it actually came into existence,
that was used as a format for data to pass in and out
of a web service.
But today it is pretty much an international standard.
If you look at all the JavaScript frameworks like
Node.js, React, Angular, or no sequal databases like
MongoDB or messaging frameworks like Kafka,
all of them extensively make use of JSON today.
So now let's understand why we need JSON.
Let's look at this two tier architecture of an application.
I have a database here and that RESTful API
is talking to the database.
This API may be built on a .net platform using
the ASP.net MVC API's.
And then when the RESTful API churns out data,
it will display it on the Java server page,
which come a under the Java enterprise umbrella.
Both of these are different systems.
Java and .net,
but in spite of that, they are talking together.
Let's see how a 3D architecture looks like,
you have a RESTful API communicating with the database,
then you have a set of middleware API's let's say,
which is written out in Python libraries,
and then both of these systems
lets say have to work together
in order to display the data on the front end,
which is the user interface,
and that is backed up by a Java
or maybe a Java enterprise framework like Spring Mvc,
JSF strat, et cetera.
Now in both of these architectures,
do you understand that all of these blocks
have to work together in harmony.
They have to collaborate, they have to communicate,
so that they ultimately go and render the application
to the end customers.
Now each of these blocks, or each of these languages,
or each of these platforms,
has got a different way of working.
Their own environment, semantics,
their ways of storing data, everything is different.
But at the end of the day, yes they have to communicate
in order to satisfy the requirements of the customer.
Which means they need a format of data exchange.
Which each of these systems will understand.
Each one of them will be able to pass it,
and then can word it into their own objects
inside for further processing.
That's exactly why we need JSON.
JSON is that kind of a format which will be used
to exchange data between these heterogeneous systems
so that the end application is rendered to the customer.
Now, which ever system let's say its SpiTAN, or .net,
or Java, or any other the system
any other language that you take,
if it wants to transmit data to another system,
then it will have convert data out of its own object
to a JSON representation.
And whenever it receives data from any other system,
it will receive a JSON representation
which it'll have to convert back
into it's own kind of object.
So when we try to talk of JASON with the Java platform,
when you can order Java object to a JASON representation,
of course the process is called Production of JSON,
or as we say technically serialization.
And when it's the other way around,
when you have a JSON object
being converted to a Java object,
the it is called Consumption of JSON,
or as we say deserialization.
So across the industry,
today we have these kind of multi-tier architectures
in the picture.
When you have different systems
collaborating with each other
they'll communicate wire this common data format
which is JSON,
and then help the customers have a wonderful experience
for their applications.
In the next video, we'll see the basic JSON types.
And we will also see how JSON
looks like the structures, et cetera.